---
layout: post
title: The 2.1 - Calma Update
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BootleggersROM/ExtraStuff/master/blogstuff/bootleg_21_calma.jpg
---

Hey, sorry for all the delay but finally, the update is here! We call it [Calma](https://goo.gl/yn9B2s) because it's a cool name and it's a bit about what's on this builds.

This is more like taking a break from features and focusing a bit on fixing some weird UI layouts, or maybe tweaks some system stuff that's working wrong or it's enabled and on the dumpster is disabled. Kind of organizing our stuff and making it simple so, hope you enjoy the build anyways.

More than that, we added a OTA update (as requested from many people) based on NitrogenROM OAT method. All the credits goes to them and their incredible work. Also, this is really unexpected from us, we expected to be some small project for surnia and maybe mido, but now we're getting new devices like Yu Yureka, Moto G5S Plus and who knows which devices will get a build? We don't know, but thanks for all the people who enjoy the ROM and give us feedback and help us grow every day. It's enjoyable to do a ROM with this great community.

Also, talking about comments and stuff, we added an email adress on our github in case you want to send us feedback from there, or talk with us, or if we did something wrong, to contact us and fix it. Doesn't matter is from the website, the ROM or the source code, feel free to tell us.

On this update we also want to invite you to checkour our new headers made by the incredible **nataliasolaange** who does an incredible work with their photos and well, you can set some amazing headers with her point of view of what's around her. We want to thank her for giving us the permission to share her photos with your QS. And hope you enjoy that amazing headers.

And welp, i think that's all for it. Maybe there are more stuff but we miss it but hope you enjoy the new update and share your thoughts about it!